                                .oO Phrack 50 Oo.

                            Volume Seven, Issue Fifty

                                     13 of 16
 
                         ===============================
                         DTMF Encoding and Decoding In C
                                    by Mr. Blue
                         ===============================

  
Introduction
------------
    DTMF tones are the sounds emitted when you dial a number on your touch 
tone phone.  Modems have traditionally been the device used to generate
these tones from a computer.  But the more sophisticated modems on the
market today are nothing more than a DSP (digital signal processor) with
accompanying built-in software to generate and interpet analog sounds into
digital data.  The computers sitting on your desk have more cpu power,
a more complex OS, and very often a just as sophisticated DSP.  There is
no reason you can not duplicate the functionality of a modem from right
inside of unix software, providing you with a lot easier to understand and
modify code.  

    In this article I provide the source code to both encode and decode
DTMF tones.  There are numerous uses for this code, for use in unix based 
phone scanning and war dialing programs, voice mail software, automated
pbx brute force hacking, and countless other legitimate and not so
legitimate uses.

    I will not go into depth explaining the underlying mathematical
theories behind this code.  If you are of a sufficient math background I
would encourage you to research and learn about the algorithms used from
your local college library; it is not my intent to summarize these
algorithms, only to provide unix C code that can be used on its own or
expanded to be used as part of a larger program.  

    Use the extract utility included with Phrack to save the individual
source files out to the dtmf/ directory.  If you find this code useful, I
would encourage you to show your appreciation by sharing some of your own
knowledge with Phrack.    

